{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf824\cocoasubrtf380
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12040\viewh15840\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 ExamplePrefs 6.0
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\
Step 6 in your Carbonizing project mostly finishes the modernization process.  This version adds support for HIView/compositing mode, Interface Builder Services, and Quartz 2D/Core Graphics.  The PEF version was not updated.  Although it could've been changed to use nib files, Interface Builder isn't very conducive to making a Platinum theme interface and the existing resources were perfectly fine.  With the introduction of nib files for the Mach-O version, it no longer uses the Resource Manager at all.  The data browser control is only compatible with HIView/compositing mode in Mac OS X 10.3 or later so much of the new code is only used when running in Mac OS X 10.3 or later.  Adding support for HIView/compositing and Quartz 2D/Core Graphics significantly lengthened the data browser draw item callback but when the program is run in Mac OS X 10.1 and later it doesn't use QuickDraw anymore.  Because different versions of Mac OS X integrate Core Graphics with the Appearance Manager to different degrees, the draw item callback was split into four different versions.  The data browser item notification callback was split into an HIView/compositing and "classic" version.  The window method is up to 533 (+149 from 5.0) lines and the dialog method is up to 353 (+112 from 5.0) lines.}