{\rtf1\mac\ansicpg10000\cocoartf824\cocoasubrtf380
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset77 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12040\viewh15840\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\ql\qnatural

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 ExamplePrefs 4.0
\f1\b0\fs24 \
\
Step 4 in your Carbonizing project continues the modernization process.  This version adds support for Mach-O and packaging.  The Classic project and associated code has been stripped out; Mac OS 8/9 is now supported only through CarbonLib.  The current approach builds two applications.  This is because Mac OS 8/9 requires 'icns' resources to be in the resource fork of the resource file.  For that reason the resources in the PEF version must not be flattened.  Because the current icon loading code looks in the current resource file, there cannot be an ExamplePrefs.rsrc file in the Resources folder of the bundle (without modifying the code to change the current resource file).  The Mach-O version, on the other hand, requires its resources to be flattened and in the Resources folder of the bundle.  Hence the need for two separate applications.  Another addition is an Xcode project which adds a few support files and builds a separate app.  For the most part, the actual code changes were minimal, the significant ones are that menus are handled more generically as commands rather than menu commands, and most of the window handling code became private to that file.  The Aqua theme resources have been removed from the PEF version of the application and the Platinum theme resources were not copied to the Mach-O version.  This allowed for some simplifications in loading the UI.  The window/list method is still a bit tedious but it was trimmed to 779 (-53 from 3.0) lines.  The dialog/list box control method shrinks to 339 (-117 from 3.0) lines.}